docs improvements (#470)
stackabletech/opa-operator: docs/modules/opa/pages/index.adoc

= Stackable Operator for OPA (OpenPolicyAgent)
:description: The Stackable Operator for OPA is a Kubernetes operator that manages OPA instances. Learn about its features, resources, dependencies and demos, and see the list of supported OPA versions.

> :keywords: Stackable Operator, OPA, OpenPolicyAgent, Rego, Kubernetes, k8s, operator, engineer, policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:keywords: Stackable Operator, OPA, OpenPolicyAgent, Rego, Kubernetes, k8s, operator, engineer, policy, authorization, ACL
```

The Stackable Operator for the https://www.openpolicyagent.org/[OpenPolicyAgent] (OPA) manages OPA instances. OPA is an open-source policy engine that allows you to define, manage and enforce policies across a number of software systems. OPA promotes "policy-as-code"; policies are defined in the declarative https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/[Rego] language.

== Getting started

The xref:getting_started/index.adoc[Getting started guide] will guide you through the installation of the Operator and setting up OPA. You will also create your first Rego rule and query the OPA for a policy decision.

== Operator model

> The _OpaCluster_ custom resource is used to declare OPA instances, only one xref:home:concepts:roles-and-role-groups.adoc[role] is defined: `server`. OPA is deployed as a DaemonSet because policy decisions must to be fast and efficient. Therefore an OPA agent must be available on every Node to reduce latency and network calls. A DaemonSet with its own ConfigMap is created for every role group. The DaemonSet will then deploy a Pod on every node. Every role group also gets its own Service definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _OpaCluster_ custom resource is used to declare OPA instances, only one xref:home:concepts:roles-and-role-groups.adoc[role] is defined: `server`. OPA is deployed as a DaemonSet because policy decisions must be fast and efficient. Therefore, an OPA agent must be available on every Node to reduce latency and network calls. A DaemonSet with its own ConfigMap is created for every role group. The DaemonSet will then deploy a Pod on every node. Every role group also gets its own Service definition.
```

> The _OpaCluster_ custom resource is used to declare OPA instances, only one xref:home:concepts:roles-and-role-groups.adoc[role] is defined: `server`. The biggest difference to other products on the Stackable Data Platform is that OPA is deployed as a DaemonSet (not as a StatefulSet). Policy decisions need to be made quick, so it is helpful to have an agent running on every node, to avoid network calls. For every role group a DaemonSet is created, with its own ConfigMap. The DaemonSet will then create a Pod for every node. Every role group also gets its own Service definition.

Reviewer: I removed the DaemonSet vs StatefulSet comparison for future changes. We will probably move away from statefulsets to deployments in a couple of products.
```suggestion
The _OpaCluster_ custom resource is used to declare OPA instances, only one xref:home:concepts:roles-and-role-groups.adoc[role] is defined: `server`. OPA is deployed as a DaemonSet because policy decisions must to be fast and efficient. Therefore an OPA agent must be available on every Node to reduce latency and network calls. A DaemonSet with its own ConfigMap is created for every role group. The DaemonSet will then deploy a Pod on every node. Every role group also gets its own Service definition.
```

image::opa_overview.drawio.svg[A diagram depicting the Kubernetes resources created by the Stackable Operator for OPA]

> Rego rules are defined in ConfigMaps, which are labelled with the `opa.stackable.tech/bundle: "true"` label. Every OPA Pod has a sidecar `bundle-builder` container that collects these ConfigMaps and builds them into a policy bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rego rules are defined in ConfigMaps, which are labeled with the `opa.stackable.tech/bundle: "true"` label. Every OPA Pod has a sidecar `bundle-builder` container that collects these ConfigMaps and builds them into a policy bundle. This ensures that policies can be updated on-the-fly.
```
